Blackened cauliflower steak
Ingredients
1 – 2 tablespoons olive oil
1 large head cauliflower
blackened, creole or cajun seasoning of choice (recipe for homemade below)
1 pint cherry or grape tomatoes
chopped fresh parsley, to serve
lemon wedges, to garnish
grain of choice – quinoa, brown rice or farro
Blackened Seasoning
3 tablespoons paprika
2 tablespoons garlic powder
1 tablespoon onion powder
1 tablespoon black pepper
1 tablespoon dried thyme
1 tablespoon dried oregano
2 teaspoons sea salt, or to taste
1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper, or to taste
1/2 teaspoon mustard powder
himalayan salt, to taste
fresh ground pepper, to taste
Instructions
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F.
Prep the Cauliflower: Place the cauliflower stem side down, and using a sharp knife cut into the top center and slice the cauliflower in half. You want to create as many cauliflower steaks as you can from the center cut out that will be at least 3/4 inch thick. The remaining sides and pieces can be cut into cauliflower nuggets and roasted alongside the steaks, or on a separate baking sheet. I feel it’s best to use two baking sheets to prepare this meal. Using two will give you plenty of room for the steak slices to be turned over without too much crowding.
Roasting: Grease your baking sheet/s and carefully place your cauliflower steaks along with the broken florets, or place the florets on a separate baking sheet. Using an small brush, gently brush the ‘steaks’ and florets with oil. Sprinkle as much seasoning as you wish to coat on ‘steaks’ and florets. Add your tomatoes to the baking sheet, you can coat these with oil too and add a sprinkle of sea salt.
Place your baking sheet into the oven, if using two, place sheets on separate racks or side by side, depending on the size. Bake for 15 minutes, gently flip ‘steaks’ and stir florets, season again and bake for an additional 15 minutes.
Serve immediately with roasted tomatoes, grain of choice, sprinkle of chopped parsley and lemon wedges.
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for 4 days, in a covered container.




