Brussel sprout alfredo pasta
Ingredients
16 ounces Brussels Sprouts (halved)
1-2 Tbsp olive oil
1 pinch each sea salt + black pepper
3 Tbsp olive oil or vegan butter
4 large cloves garlic, chopped (yields ~3 Tbsp as original recipe is written)
1/3 cup dry white wine (Pinot Grigio, Chardonnay, + Sauvignon Blanc, are best)
300 ml double cream
Sea salt + black pepper to taste
1/4 cup parmesan cheese (plus more for serving)
10 ounces pasta*
Instructions
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (204 C) and add Brussels sprouts to a baking sheet (use more baking sheets, as needed, if increasing batch size). Drizzle with oil, and season generously with salt and pepper and toss. Arrange in a single layer and set aside.
Bring a large pot of water to a boil (for cooking the pasta) and salt generously (~1 Tbsp). Set aside while preparing sauce.
Heat a large rimmed skillet over medium heat. 
Once hot, add oil and garlic. Sauté for 3 minutes or until fragrant and very slightly golden brown, then add wine (see photo). Be careful – it may flame, but only briefly. Stir and sauté for 2-4 minutes, or until the wine has reduced by about half.
Add cream and stir.
Taste and adjust flavor as needed, adding more vegan parmesan or nutritional yeast for cheesiness, or salt and pepper for more overall flavor.
The sauce should thicken, at which point you can lower the heat to low and simmer until pasta is cooked. If it looks too thick, thin with milk. If too thin, increase heat to medium to encourage thickening.
Add Brussels sprouts to the oven and cook for 12-15 minutes or until slightly golden brown and tender, stirring once at the 10-minute mark to encourage cooking.
Around this time, add pasta to boiling water and cook according to package instructions (mine took about 7-10 minutes, so I did that last. You want the pasta and Brussels to be done around the same time).
Once cooked, drained pasta and add directly to the sauce, along with half of the Brussels sprouts and toss to combine. Season with a bit more vegan parmesan cheese (optional) for extra flavor.
Serve with remaining Brussels sprouts and additional vegan parmesan cheese for flavor. I also like a bit of red pepper flake, but this is optional.
Best when fresh, though leftovers keep well in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. Reheat in the microwave for best results.